Fri, 17 May 2024 16:00:02 GMT

Do you think you can afford the American dream in 2024? Especially with the ever-rising cost of living?

To determine the true cost of the American dream, GOBankingRates began by defining it as a married couple with two children, owning a home for four along with a car and a pet. From there, each state was analyzed with criteria that included annual grocery costs, pet care costs (based on the average annual cost of a dog and cat), an annual mortgage with a 20% down payment, annual healthcare costs, utilities costs education costs and cost of child care for two children. All annual costs were added up to represent 50% of a household’s income and doubled to account for 30% of discretionary spending and 20% for savings.

Check Out: Owe Money to the IRS? Most People Don’t Realize They Should Do This One Thing

Ranked from most to least expensive, see the true cost of the American dream in all 50 states.

Read Next: 9 American Travel Brands to Stay Away From​

Be Aware: 5 Genius Things All Wealthy People Do With Their Money

Discover More: 8 Tips To Fly Business Class for the Price of Economy

Explore More: I’m a Financial Advisor: Here’s Why My Rich Clients Identify With the Middle Class

Try This: Net Worth for US Families: How To Tell if You’re Poor, Middle-Class, Upper Middle-Class or Rich

Check Out: Toilet Paper to Discontinued Items: 7 Ways Shrinkflation Has Come to Costco

Find Out: A $150K Income Is ‘Lower Middle Class’ In These High-Cost Cities

Check Out: How Much Household Income Will Be Considered Upper Middle Class in 5 Years?

Find Out: 7 Things the Middle Class Won’t Be Able To Afford in the Next 5 Years

Trending Now: 7 Ways the Upper Middle Class Can Become Rich in 2024

Learn More: How Far a $100,000 Salary Goes in America’s 50 Largest Cities

Explore More: What Income Level Is Considered Middle Class in Your State?

Read Next: 6 Industries That Won’t Exist by 2040

Heather Taylor contributed to the reporting for this piece.

Methodology: GOBankingRates determined the true cost of the American dream by defining the American dream as a married couple with two children, for a house of four; owning a home, pet and car. From there, each state was analyzed according to the following criteria: (1) annual cost of groceries, based on the 2022 Bureau of Labor Statistics 2022 Consumer Expenditure Survey; this was then adjusted to the state’s cost of living using the Missouri Economic Research and Information Center’s cost of living indices; (2) pet care costs, based on the average annual cost of a dog and cat, sourced from the ASPCA; this was then adjusted to each state’s cost of living; (3) annual mortgage, based on the state’s median home listing price, sourced from Zillow’s February 2024 index, plus a 20% down payment, 6.87% 30-year fixed mortgage, based on the March 21, 2024 rate from Freddie Mac and average state property tax rate; (4) annual healthcare costs, (5) utilities costs and (6) educations costs, were based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ 2022 Consumer Expenditure Survey, using the consumer unit — Married Couple with Children – Total — since the average consumer unit size was four people, adjusted to each state’s cost of living; (7) annual cost of childcare for two children, sourced from the Economic Policy Institute. All these annual costs were added up, representing 50% of a households’ income which should be devoted to necessities, and then doubled (to account for 30% discretionary spending + 20% for savings) to determine the “true cost of the American dream.” All data compiled on April 19, 2024.
• None Costco's 10 Best Clothing Deals for Your Money in May 2024
• None 5 Ways to Guarantee You'll Have an Income in Retirement
• None This is The Single Most Overlooked Tool for Becoming Debt-Free

This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: The True Cost of the American Dream in Every State