Sat, 18 May 2024 05:01:36 GMT

Tampa Electric proposes residents pay millions more so big companies save | May 10

In the article about lowering energy rates for big businesses by raising them for homeowners, my concern is with the assertion from the Tampa Electric official that the cost shift could be “a catalyst for economic development.”

Is “could be” enough to justify this cost shift? If it does not prove to be a “catalyst for economic development” will the base rate be rolled back, with refunds to Tampa Electric ratepayers?

Additionally, do big corporations like Walmart need a competitive edge to the detriment of all Tampa Electric residential customers? I suspect any economic development will be to the shareholders of the big companies who benefit from this new rate structure.

It appears this is another example of the state of Florida socializing the costs and privatizing the benefits — residential customers pay the price and big business reaps the benefits.

The big babies in Florida are afraid of rainbow bridges now | Column, May 14

I recently read about your bold stance against the gay pride display and the gun violence awareness display on the Sunshine Skyway bridge. Bravo! It takes real courage to oppose efforts that promote equality and public safety.

Let’s start with the gay pride display. Because, of course, it’s so much better to pretend LGBTQ+ people don’t exist and haven’t fought tirelessly for their rights. Visibility and acceptance? Who needs them when we can maintain the status quo of ignorance and discrimination? Kudos to you for taking us back a few decades.

Now, on to the gun violence display. Clearly, acknowledging that we have a gun violence problem and trying to raise awareness is just too much. It’s much easier to ignore the issue altogether, right? After all, it’s not like gun violence affects thousands of families across the country or anything. Your stance here really shows a commitment to, well, something, but it’s certainly not public safety.

It’s impressive how you’ve managed to object to two displays that stand for compassion, awareness and progress. As a politician, I suppose sticking to outdated and regressive views is one way to go. But have you considered that supporting these initiatives might actually help create a more inclusive and safer community? Or is that too radical a notion?

Looking forward to seeing how you continue to champion causes that push us backward.

The big babies in Florida are afraid of rainbow bridges now | Column, May 14

I find your columnist quite rude and insulting. Just because someone may have a different belief system than yours does not make them “fussy babies who have dropped their pacifiers.” You might consider having her show a little more respect for your readers who have different views. That is unless you would rather have “these toddlers” cancel their newspaper subscriptions since they are obviously unable to read with what the writer considers their immature brains! To be intelligent we must believe as she does.

The big babies in Florida are afraid of rainbow bridges now | Column, May 14

Stephanie Hayes has a knack for pointing out the absurdity of the Republican Party, on par with another of my favorite columnists, Daniel Ruth. Not only are too many in the MAGA crowd afraid of rainbows, but they are also afraid of minority voters, women, the poor, children, freedom, local rule, true Christians (the “woke” crowd), Blacks and other minorities, to name a few. And they call me a snowflake?

The big babies in Florida are afraid of rainbow bridges now | Column, May 14

Columnist Stephanie Hayes has again shown us how the “free state of Florida” only applies to those older white, heterosexual, usually male members of our society. If you do not fit into their very limited, bigoted viewpoint of the world, then you are marginalized and treated as second-class citizens. Are they trying to shield the rest of us from the reality of the world as it exists or hide with their heads in the sand.

You cannot deny the reality that is before us all by just ignoring it, or in the case of a lone county commissioner taking it upon himself to object to lighting a bridge. The “free state” program administrators then rolled over as so many of the minions in Tallahassee do when the loudest voice in the crowd objects to a celebration of America.

How much for baseball?

Where St. Petersburg City Council members stand on the Rays deal | May 15

There’s a lot of controversy about spending over a billion dollars to build a new baseball stadium at the Tropicana Field complex. The taxpayers, who will foot a large portion of the cost, seem to have no direct say, as they will not vote on this deal. That will be left to the eight members of the St. Petersburg City Council and the seven members of the Pinellas County Commission. But the taxpayers will have a say when the elected officials come up for reelection. Just remember who voted to spend your hard earned dollars. Is it really necessary to spend this amount of money just to play baseball games?