Sat, 18 May 2024 03:30:51 GMT

Hundreds of union janitors united in downtown Seattle to demand a fair contract including wage increases to catch up with the cost of living, and to protect their full family employer-paid health insurance.

“I’m working three jobs and people ask me it’s stressful, absolutely it’s stressful because I’m so tired and stressed," said Amir Kalavic, who's been a janitor for 18 years. 



Several janitors told KOMO News they are struggling to make ends meet, which is why they need something to be done now.

The janitors also held a strike vote Friday ahead of their march downtown. 



SEIU6 union leaders said the collective bargaining agreement covering 4,000 janitors who clean and maintain billions of dollars of commercial real estate properties in King County is set to expire on June 30, 2024. 



Union leaders said in a press release they are made up of highly diverse, largely immigrant workforce with over 30 different languages.

“Everyone needs to get the same respect, it doesn’t matter what color, your race or religion," said Kalavic.



They add the average salary for janitors in King County is less than $45,000 a year, while the average salary for all workers in King County is nearly $78,000 a year. Union janitors said increases in the cost of basic living expenses have forced them to take on second and third jobs, leaving them with insufficient time to care for their families, for personal wellness, or even sleep.

“Our members are not thriving they are struggling and they’re having to make really tough choices every single day so that they are able to survive," said Cenia Javalera, SEIU6 President.



Janitors covered under the King County CBA are employed by ABM, SBM Management Services, Pacific Building Services, Alliance Building Services, and others. Their labor maintains commercial buildings, tech campuses, and healthcare facilities across King County, with the majority working nightshift in Seattle’s downtown core.

“As a single parent, my daughter is my motivation for everything. I’m fighting to maintain good medical. I‘ve experienced the weight of not having insurance. Good insurance means I can support my daughter through college and continue to provide for us," said union janitor Carmen Salinas.

“The money I get from my job is just enough for bills and to sustain myself. I have to get a second job to provide for my daughter properly. Working two jobs is hard on our bodies, especially our joints, and makes us tired for the next one, meaning we can't bring our best. With rent increasing and food becoming expensive, we need to get better wages to keep up. We need to be able to work one job and earn enough," said union janitor Ngoc Nguyen.



Other janitors also voiced their concerns about the physical strains they face on the job.

“If we wouldn’t have the insurance that we got now and that we’re fighting for a lot of our janitors wouldn’t be able to come to work," said union janitor Anthony Simpson.



Union leaders said they expect to begin bargaining negotiations the first week of June. They add that if an agreement is not met, they are authorized to go on strike.