Fri, 17 May 2024 21:12:21 GMT

As existing homes go for bigger price tags, new homes are shrinking. You can even buy and ship tiny homes online now.

In 2023, the average size of new homes built fell to less than 2,500 square feet, the smallest they've been since 2010, according to an April report from the National Association of Home Builders. That downward trend started in 2015, and only buoyed in 2021, which the organization attributes to pandemic-fueled desire for more space to stay home.

The NAHB says affordability is mostly what's driving this downsizing trend, though a spokesperson with the organization could not offer specific data on the "tiny home" trend. Having units delivered to you from major retailers would certainly make it easier to downsize, too.

National trends:Where can millennials afford to buy a home? Map shows cities with highest ownership rates

Home Depot recently told USA TODAY that they sell more than 30 varieties of tiny homes online.

Last summer, a prefabricated Home Depot tiny home went viral online. Several realtors broke down the listing online, dazzled by the "Getaway Pad Mini 1 Bed 1.5 Bath" selling for less than $45,000.

But the renderings of a finished home with a spiral staircase and roof deck patio were just that, the tiny homes are "steel frame kits" with accessories sold separately.

Amazon also sells tiny homes online. The "Chery Industrial Expandable Prefab House" is 19 feet by 20 feet, and sells for $17,500.

YouTuber Nathan Graham with Unspeakable chronicled his journey buying one of these Amazon homes. To his apparent surprise, it came folded and finished with doors, windows and bathroom fixtures. However, the listing specifies customers will need to hire an electrician for wiring. Graham nor Amazon responded to multiple requests for comment.

How do online tiny homes compare to national average prices?

Some have called the current housing market the least affordable in recent memory. Tiny homes have long been touted as a potential solution to lack of housing affordability and homelessness.

The median existing home sale price in March was up to $393,500, the highest price ever for that month, according to the National Association of REALTORS.

That sits quite a bit higher than the tiny homes online going for less than $50,000, but you would still need somewhere to put it.