Fri, 17 May 2024 18:39:00 GMT

U.S. Sen. Bob Casey has chalked up the rising cost of goods to the phenomenon of “greedflation,” the idea that businesses take advantage of rising costs to hike their prices and keep them there.

While it is of course true that prices have gone up and stayed frustratingly high, it’s not your neighborhood grocery pocketing the difference between what you’re paying now and what you paid two years ago.

The fact is, food retailers operate on the slimmest of margins, and often find themselves caught in the middle between the rising cost of doing business and their need to stay competitive by keeping prices low for customers.

The numbers bear it out. One longtime Pennsylvania-based grocery chain reported net sales for 2023 totaling almost $5 billion. That’s a lot of sales, for sure. But net income — meaning the amount kept as profit after taxes and other expenses are factored in — was less than 2.5%. That’s about the industry average for food retail. For every dollar sold, the grocer makesless than 2.5 cents. With such low margins, groceries stay in business based on volume; they have to sell a lot of stuff to make the numbers work.

If not grocers, who is benefiting from rising prices? NYU’s Stern School of Business tracks the average net profit margin across all industries in the United States. As of January 2024,that number was around 7.7%. Amazon’s latest reported profit margin was 6.25%, comparatively small but more than double the typical grocery. ExxonMobil was just north of 10%.

The outliers? Credit card companies. Mastercard’s 2023 net profit margin was 44.5%. Bigger still, Visa’s net profit margin was a whopping 54% last year.

You might wonder how it is relevant to compare credit card giants like Visa and Mastercard to your local supermarket. Well, consider this: Every time you make a purchase by credit card, the store is charged by the credit card company between 2% -4% of the total — including the sales tax — to process the transaction. That’s known as the “swipe fee.” Remember that food retail margins hover around 2.5%. So, depending on what you are buying and which card you use, the credit card companyis making more on your purchase than the grocer.

Combined, Visa and Mastercard control around 85% of the credit card processing market. With this level of dominance, they have the power to dictate to businesses what their terms will be — and there’s nothing businesses can do about it. The proportion of purchases made by credit card is higher than ever, and it keeps rising. More than three-quarters of all grocery store purchases are now made with credit or debit cards. It would be impossible to walk away from electronic transactions, and credit card companies know it. Processing fees are up more than 110% over the last decade, and for many grocers now represent their highest cost after labor and rent.

Food retail is a highly competitive industry. In Pennsylvania,there are hundreds of competitors — from small, independent stores to large chains — working to earn your business. To do that, they must keep prices as low as possible; competition is too fierce to charge more than the market can bear.

So, when you see that the price of cereal or a loaf of bread has gone up at your local market, realize that the grocery in almost every case is passing along only what cost increases theyabsolutely cannot absorb themselves.

It’s not just swipe fees that are contributing to rising costs for food retailers, of course. There are many reasons why the costsof eggs, grains, poultry and other products have increased over the last couple of years. The price of a dozen eggs, for example, was as high as $4.82 in January of last year. That was in large part due to a resurgence of highly pathogenic avian influenza that since 2022 has caused the loss of more 82 million poultry birds nationwide.

But here’s the thing: Eggs are back down to around $3 a dozen, and while the industry continues to closely monitor for signs of more avian flu, a competitive marketplace means there will always be downward pressure on prices.

That simply doesn’t apply to credit card companies, though. They aren’t playing by the same rules, and they have no reasonto stop raising fees. That is, unless their broken marketplace is fixed. Sen. Casey and Congress, of course, do have the power to do this.

So, when we talk about the idea of greedflation, let’s make sure we are focusing on the real factors contributing to the issue, and what can really be done to address them.

Alex Baloga is President and CEO of the Pennsylvania Food Merchants Association, a statewide trade association representing businesses up and down the commonwealth’s food supply chain.