Fri, 17 May 2024 18:31:47 GMT

Tyson Fury and Oleksandr Usyk will meet Saturday in perhaps the most anticipated heavyweight matchup of this millennium.

The fight will be the first undisputed heavyweight championship since Lennox Lewis vs Evander Holyfield in 1999 and the winner will become the first undisputed heavyweight champion in the four-belt era.

Fury (34-0-1, 24 knockouts) puts his WBC heavyweight title and lineal status on the line while Usyk (21-0, 14 knockouts) enters the fight with the WBO, WBA, IBF and Ring Magazine heavyweight titles.

The fight was originally slated to take place in mid-February, but a cut to Fury's head in sparring delayed the fight three months.

Here's all you need to know about the Fury vs Usyk fight.

Fury vs Usyk TV channel, streaming, how to watch

Tyson Fury and Oleksandr Usyk will fight on ESPN+ pay-per-view and DAZN pay-per-view in the United States.
• How to watch: Top Rank on ESPN+ PPV or DAZN PPV

More:When will Caleb Plant fight next? Ashland City boxer gives update on return

More:What are the rules for Mike Tyson vs Jake Paul fight? Shortened rounds, 14-ounce gloves

The Fury vs Usyk pay-per-view will cost $69.99 through both ESPN+ PPV and DAZN PPV.

The Fury vs Usyk fight card will start at 11 a.m. (CT) on Saturday, May 18. The main event ring walks are expected around 5 p.m. (CT).

Where is the Fury vs Usyk fight location?

The Fury vs Usyk undisputed heavyweight title fight will take place at Kingdom Arena in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Kingdom Arena is a 26,000 seat soccer stadium with a retractable roof. This will be Fury's second fight in Riyadh while it will be Usyk's first, although his second in Saudi Arabia.

The Fury-Usyk undercard is loaded with top fighters and title fights. The co-main event will see Jai Opetaia, lineal cruiserweight champion, rematch Maris Briedis for the vacant IBF cruiserweight title. Joe Cordina will also defend his IBF junior lightweight title against Anthony Cacace. The full pay-per-view card is listed below.
• Main event: Tyson Fury vs Oleksandr Usyk for the undisputed heavyweight championship
• Co-main: Jai Opetaia vs Maris Briedis for the lineal, Ring Magazine and IBF cruiserweight titles
• Joe Cordina vs Anthony Cacace for the IBF junior lightweight title

What is Tyson Fury's fight record? Who's knocked Fury down?

Tyson Fury has a 34-0-1 record with 24 wins coming by way of knockout.

Fury is the former unified and current lineal heavyweight champion. He's held the WBC title since 2020 when he defeated Deontay Wilder in the pair's rematch. Fury is the No. 1 rated heavyweight by ESPN and No. 2, behind Usyk, by Ring Magazine.

Fury became a unified heavyweight champion in 2015 when he beat Wladimir Klitschko by unanimous decision. He later vacated the belts, but became a two-time champion in his trilogy of fights against the Tuscaloosa born knockout artist, Wilder.

While he's never suffered a loss in his career, Fury has been knocked to the canvas on multiple occasions. Wilder knocked Fury down twice in their first fight, which ended in a split decision draw.

Wilder again sent Fury to the canvas, twice, in the pair's third fight but Fury survived and ultimately won that bout by 11th round knockout, a credit to his chin, given Wilder has 42 knockouts in his 43 wins.

Most recently Francis Ngannou shocked the world when he sat down Fury in the two's fight in October of last year, which Fury won by a somewhat controversial split decision. Fury's also been knocked down by Neven Pajkic in 2011 and Steve Cunningham in 2013.

While Usyk possesses nowhere near the punching power of Wilder or Ngannou, he'll certainly take it as a positive that Fury has shown vulnerability in recent fights. Although Fury's last outing was less than stellar, when at his best there is no other heavyweight with the combination of size, speed and skill that Fury brings to the table.

Usyk is the No. 1 rated heavyweight and the No. 3 fighter pound-for-pound by Ring Magazine. ESPN rates him No. 2 at heavyweight, behind Fury, and No. 3 pound-for-pound.

From Ukraine, Usyk is the former undisputed cruiserweight champion, the first undisputed cruiserweight champion in the four-belt era. After becoming undisputed at cruiserweight he moved up to heavyweight and soon faced Anthony Joshua for three of the four belts in the heavyweight division.

Usyk cruised to a unanimous decision victory in that fight before successfully defending the titles in a rematch against Joshua in 2022. Usyk became the third fighter to unify cruiserweight titles before moving up to win a heavyweight belt.

Usyk has since defended his titles once, in August of 2023 against highly ranked contender Daniel Dubois.

Depending on who you ask, either Fury or Usyk could be considered the best fighter at heavyweight. Fury has never lost and remains the lineal champion, but Usyk's meteoric rise into the heavyweight division has left many calling him the top dog.

Tyson Fury is a -120 favorite on DraftKings, while Oleksandr Usyk is +100 to win. The over/under on rounds is 10.5.

Odds via DraftKings as of May 16.

Boxing fans were witness to a special moment ahead of Fury's last fight against Ngannou, when Fury crashed an interview with Hall of Famer Mike Tyson.

Fury is notably named after the former heavyweight champion from Brownsville, Brooklyn, who is set to fight Youtuber turned boxer Jake Paul in an officially sanctioned heavyweight fight this summer at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

Tyson calls Fury the king of boxing before the Brit jumps into frame, hugging his namesake.

"How about me and Mike on the same camera, together. I'm named after this guy; it makes him even more of a legend," Fury said. "This guy is a bona fide living, alive, legend and I'm named after him and I'm proud to be named after him."

Harrison Campbell covers boxing for The Tennessean and high school sports for The Daily Herald. Email him at hcampbell@gannett.com and follow him on X (formerly Twitter) @hccamp.