Fri, 17 May 2024 17:30:00 GMT

Alongside the recent Atlantic City America’s Playground update, Season 16 kicked off in Fallout 76. This new Season in Fallout 76 has proven to be quite divisive among fans, although the new weapon that players can unlock in the Season 16 Scoreboard has quickly emerged as one of the strongest ranged weapons in the game.

This new weapon that was introduced in Fallout 76’s Season 16, the Cremator, is a reworked version of the Incinerator from past Fallout games, except this time around, it’s extremely powerful. Consequently, players who are looking for a weapon that packs a punch should consider collecting a legendary Cremator and making a dedicated build for this weapon.

What makes the Cremator among some of the strongest weapons in Fallout 76 is that it has high damage over time (DoT), and a large area of effect that can strike multiple targets or a single target multiple times with each shot. With a proper build, this weapon can kill most common enemies with one shot, whereas very few meta weapons in Fallout 76 can pull this off without relying on a critical hit, stealth bonuses, or other temporary buffs.

Most of the DoT effects in Fallout 76, like Fire and Poison, are quite underwhelming. Despite this, the majority of the Cremator’s damage comes from the Fire DoT that it applies. Since the Cremator features a weapon mod that fires four projectiles with every shot, hitting a single target with all four projectiles will apply a devastating DoT effect. Otherwise, this mod makes the Cremator perfect for dealing with crowds of common enemies.

The Cremator does have two major weaknesses, though, which are its ammo efficiency and its potential to deal friendly fire damage with its explosions. Even though the Cremator was recently rebalanced to consume less ammo per shot, it still consumes large quantities of ammo, especially if players intend to use it as their primary weapon. Consequently, this weapon isn’t always the best option for long fights against tough enemies or close-quarters combat, which is a common flaw among explosive weapons. However, the Cremator is still a reliable weapon for taking out crowds of common enemies.

As a heavy weapon, the Cremator naturally pairs well with Power Armor because of the Intelligence perk Stabilized, which allows heavy weapons to ignore enemy armor and grants improved accuracy. Additionally, pairing this weapon with the Strangler Heart Power Armor’s set bonus will further increase the Cremator’s damage by adding Poison DoT, though obtaining a set of Strangler Heart Power Armor is a costly investment.

Ultimately, the Cremator can be one of the best weapons to bring along for exploring or completing Public Events in Fallout 76, but it arguably gets outperformed by certain other weapons when dealing with tanky enemies, such as raid bosses. Players can attempt to invest in a build that makes up for this weakness, but it’s probably best for players to bring a backup weapon for the few situations where the Cremator falls short.