Fri, 17 May 2024 12:01:00 GMT

Homelander's debut in Mortal Kombat 1 is approaching and his eventual place in the meta will soon make itself known. In the meantime though, there is plenty of room to speculate. So far, most of the DLC characters have been able to successfully fill a specific niche in Mortal Kombat 1, either in terms of gameplay or aesthetic, and Homelander should be expected to do the same. At the same time, it will also be important to see how strong he is in an actual match. That could be the most important aspect of Homelander's legacy in Mortal Kombat 1.

Much like fellow Mortal Kombat 1 guest Omni-Man, Homelander presents himself as a hero to the public, when he's actually anything but. A supremely selfish character, Homelander believes that his power elevates him above everyone else. Beneath his media-friendly persona is a callous character who is capable of committing almost any atrocity without remorse. In fact, Homelander is even more despicable than Omni-Man, who at least loved his wife and son and eventually came to question his actions. Homelander, on the other hand, only loves himself. Homelander would have no qualms about slaying other fighters in the universe of Mortal Kombat 1.

Homelander May Rely On One Major Niche in Mortal Kombat 1

One of the main details shown off in Homelander's Mortal Kombat 1 trailer is his heat vision. This is fitting since it's his main weapon in the show as well. Aside from an uppercut to set up one of his fatalities, heat vision is the only way that he's shown attacking in the brief trailer. While it won't be clear for sure until more of his moveset is revealed, it's a safe bet that Homelander's heat vision will be a major focus in his fighting style. With that in mind, Homelander seems likely to be designed as a zoning character.

Mortal Kombat 1 Will Almost Certainly Make Homelander a Zoner

There is a lot of evidence to support the idea of Homelander being a zoner in Mortal Kombat 1. It also helps that his other main offensive ability, his sonic scream, is also a ranged attack. If this is Homelander's main focus though, then he will need variety in his use of his powers. He could have quick shots and sustained bursts, as well as a laser sweep similar to one of his opening animations. In order to be a good zoner, Homelander will need variety and utility in his moveset.

Homelander's Moveset Could Limit His Options and Viability

Being a zoner would give Homelander stiff competition from characters like Sindel and Rain. In addition, if Mortal Kombat 1 embraces Homelander's character, then his melee fighting skills could be among the weakest in the game. In short, Homelander will probably live and die by his zoning game. If he has plenty of mix-ups, effective moves, and ways to create distance, then he could be a very effective fighter.

But if he is predictable and easily lets the opponent close the distance, he could prove incredibly weak. It's the strength of Homelander's options that will ultimately determine his place in the meta.

Homelander could be a serious zoning threat if his moveset is geared for it, but it only takes a few weaknesses for his competitive viability to drop drastically. Players should expect Homelander in Mortal Kombat 1 to be a zoner because focusing on melee would not fit his character.

Plus, while a good zoning character can be terrifying, relying heavily on his heat vision might keep him from reaching his full potential. A good guess for Homelander's place in Mortal Kombat 1's meta is mid-tier unless his gameplay reveal holds some surprises.