Sat, 18 May 2024 05:49:07 GMT

Chicago, IL – June 13, 2017 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL – Free Report ), Facebook (NASDAQ: FB – Free Report ), Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN – Free Report ), Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT – Free Report ) and Alphabet (NASDAQ: GOOGL – Free Report ).

Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the Day pick for free .

Here are highlights from Monday’s Analyst Blog:

For the second consecutive day of trading, shares of some of the largest technology companies on the planet—including Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL – Free Report ), Facebook (NASDAQ:FB – Free Report ), Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN – Free Report ) and Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT – Free Report )—dipped on Monday.

Last Friday, Goldman Sachs warned investors in a note that there are multiple potential unaccounted for dangers in the tech sector. This report caused an industry-wide selloff to end the week, and today, many of the biggest tech companies have seen their stock prices fall again.

Goldman first claimed that the “FANG” acronym is now obsolete, opting to rename the group of companies “FAAMG”— Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, and Alphabet (NASDAQ: GOOGL – Free Report )—as the most powerful and relevant firms in the tech space.

“While FANG has dominated investor focus, the nature of the acronym has expanded more broadly to encompass mega-cap tech,” Goldman analyst Robert Boroujerdi said. “Indeed, the bigger story in our view is FAAMG — Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Alphabet — a group of five stocks which have been the key drivers of both the SPX & NDX returns year-to date.”

The financial giant thinks the huge focus on FAAMG might cause problems. Goldman sees this possibility ramping up further as more and more passive investors get in on these currently low volatility stocks. “The fear is that if fundamental events cause volatility to rise, these same passive vehicles will sell and exacerbate downside volatility,” the note said.

Goldman’s note boiled down to the fact that the company thinks risks such as regulatory concerns and cyclical exposure will cause these tech stocks to become far less safe than many investors assume.

It’s worth noting that shares of Apple are down 2.4% after the company took another hit from analysts on Monday. A new report from Mizuho analyst Abhey Lamba downgraded Apple from a “buy” to “neutral.” On top of that, the firm lowered its price target from $160 to $150 and made it clear that investors could be putting too much stock in the power of the upcoming 10 th Anniversary iPhone.

“We believe enthusiasm around the upcoming product cycle is fully captured at current levels, with limited upside to estimates from here on out,” the analyst said in a note.

Mizuho still thinks the iPhone 8 will be a strong performer for Apple. But the company does not believe the new smartphone can solve all of Apple’s current problems.

Despite the recent drops, the tech sector is still off to a roaring start to the year. According to our Zacks Sector Rank data, the overall “Computers and Technology” business has gained more than 19% year-to-date. It doesn’t seem like the time to jump ship on the whole technology sector, but maybe just take a step back and relax for a bit.

More Stock News: This Is Bigger than the iPhone!

It could become the mother of all technological revolutions. Apple sold a mere 1 billion iPhones in 10 years but a new breakthrough is expected to generate more than 27 billion devices in just 3 years, creating a $1.7 trillion market.

Zacks has just released a Special Report that spotlights this fast-emerging phenomenon and 6 tickers for taking advantage of it. If you don't buy now, you may kick yourself in 2020. Click here for the 6 trades >>

Strong Stocks that Should Be in the News

Many are little publicized and fly under the Wall Street radar. They're virtually unknown to the general public. Yet today's 220 Zacks Rank #1 "Strong Buys" were generated by the stock-picking system that has nearly tripled the market from 1988 through 2015. Its average gain has been a stellar +26% per year. See these high-potential stocks free >>.

Get the full Report on FB - FREE

Get the full Report on AMZN - FREE

Get the full Report on AAPL - FREE

Get the full Report on MSFT - FREE

Get the full Report on GOOGL - FREE

Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss.

This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report

 

Click for Free Apple Inc. (AAPL) Stock Analysis Report >>

 

Click for Free Facebook, Inc. (FB) Stock Analysis Report >>

 

Click for Free Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Stock Analysis Report >>

 

Click for Free Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) Stock Analysis Report >>

 

Click for Free Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) Stock Analysis Report >>

 

To read this article on Zacks.com click here.