Fri, 17 May 2024 15:28:45 GMT

It's a personal-audio truism: Those who try AirPods love them at first listen and never look back. These durable wireless earbuds are comfortable, have a long battery life and produce fantastic sound — and they have an army of fans. And right now? You can get a stellar 2nd-gen pair from Amazon for $49 off.

Why is this a good deal? 💰

Just like it's true that AirPods are great, it's also true that good sales are rare. This price meets that bar, though — you aren't likely to see a better deal until a major sales event like Prime Day or Black Friday. They hit $80 last Black Friday, according to our price trackers.

There's a reason AirPods always sell out: They're awesome. Sure, everyone might rave about AirPods Pro, but those cost a pretty penny. These second-generation AirPods provide comparable sound quality, are easy to use and just plain look great. What's more, their charging case slips easily into a pocket or purse (you might even forget it's in there).

You can expect roughly five hours of battery life on a single charge, but the case can recharge your AirPods five times before it runs out of juice. That's nearly a full day of listening to your favorite tunes or podcasts, streaming content or listening to that hot new audiobook. Thanks to the Apple H1 chip, these pair easily with your iOS devices — just open the case and you'll be prompted to connect them.

They're also durable. Remember how we said you might forget they're in your pocket? Well, we speak from experience — these AirPods survived a trip through the washing machine in a pants pocket without skipping a beat (so to speak).

Fans of AirPods gush about them — over 539,000 shoppers (yes, really) have given them a perfect five-star rating.

"We purchased these for our teenage son," said one parent. "They pair with his Apple iPhone. The wireless rechargeable case is so convenient. He has used them for over a year and a half and they still work really well and he uses them every day!" A lot of other reviewers have mentioned being happy with the longevity of the AirPods too.

Said another fan: "I love the overall look and feel of this product. The sound quality and audio quality both perform very well. The battery life is just awesome. I can use these any time of day and travel with them."

This shopper agrees about the stellar battery life. "I love these things. They last so long, so I don’t have to charge them that often and they don’t fall out of my ears."

"High quality only — one problem," noted a reviewer who gave the pair four stars. "Very good noise quality, but the only bad thing is that if you play it too loud, the noise bleeds out..."

This shopper wasn't thrilled with the price, but still gave high praise. "One minor downside is that the AirPods are relatively expensive compared to other wireless earbuds on the market. However, the quality, performance and user experience justify the investment for me."

If you have Amazon Prime, you’ll get free shipping, of course. Not yet a member? No problem. You can sign up for your free 30-day trial here. (And by the way, those without Prime still get free shipping on orders of $25 or more.)

The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication.

Looking for more great Amazon tech deals? Check these out: