Fri, 17 May 2024 17:00:56 GMT

Memorial Day is still a handful of days away, but we're already seeing the sale prices roll in. Here are some of the best Amazon Memorial Day sale items to shop today.

While we're still a few months away from shopping the mega deals during Prime Day 2024, Amazon is putting out some great deals during the Memorial Day Sale, which is already underway. It's an ideal time to grab anything you'll need for the summer season ahead, like upgrades to tech, kitchen appliances for summer projects, or a new e-reader for relaxing afternoons spent in the shade.

If you're in the market for some fresh items before summer, here is our list of the best Amazon Memorial Day Sale items to shop today. We expect sale items to continue rolling in as we approach May 27, so keep an eye on this page as we update it with additional deals.

Check out the full list of Amazon Memorial Day Sale deals here.

Why we like it

Investing in a reliable and high-quality pair of earbuds can be pretty life changing. You deserve to enjoy your favorite songs, podcasts, and audiobooks with a comfortable pair of earbuds and the Beats Studio Buds are up for the task. Plus, thanks to the Amazon Memorial Day Sale, you'll be getting the Buds for just $79.99 instead of the usual price of $149.95, which is an impressive 47% discount and the lowest we've ever seen at Amazon. They come in a great range of colorways, too, so you can still grab black or white or go for something more bold like Sunset Pink or Ocean Blue.

In terms of sound, Mashable's review of the Beats Studio Buds by Alex Perry awards them a 4.25/5 which means they earn a Mashable Choice Award. He mentions the massive bass, strong battery life (Beats mentions this goes up to 24 hours with the included case), and compatibility with both Android and iOS turn them into a top choice.

Why we like it

What's summer without backyard barbecues? If your old charcoal grill is looking sad, the impressive Traeger Grills Pro 575 is on sale for $599.95, down from the normal price of $799.99 which means you'll be scoring a savings of $200.04. The Traeger uses wood pellets to fuel the grill rather than gas or charcoal and can reach a max temperature of 500 degrees Fahrenheit. Adding to the impressive upgrades, the Traeger grill can connect to your home's WiFi which gives you control of the grill via the associated app on your phone or tablet. This means you can turn down the heat while inside prepping the potato salad.

The Traeger Grills Pro 575 has 575 square inches of grilling space which the brand says can fit 24 burgers, five racks of ribs, or four chickens.

Best deal to treat yourself

Why we like it

Summer is a great time to take it slow and relax. If 2024 has felt chaotic in a less-than-ideal way, take some time to unwind this summer with the Amazon Kindle Scribe, which doubles as an e-reader and a notebook. The Amazon Memorial Day sale bring the price down to $279.99 which is $110 off the normal price of $389.99. You'll be free to enjoy all those books you've been meaning to get around to on the Kindle Scribe's large 10.2-inch screen which is the largest of any Kindle.

But what's unique about the Scribe is the ability to use it as a journal. Sketch, drawn, write, and take notes in the margins of books with the Kindle Scribe. The included Premium Pen allows users to write handwritten notes and easily covert them into text later or create folders to keep your projects organized.

If you're looking to take it easy this summer and savor the warm afternoon breeze with a book or a journal entry, the Kindle Scribe is a great investment.

Why we like it

The kids will be on summer break in just a few short weeks, which means they'll be in need of some entertainment. Luckily, the Amazon Fire HD 8 Kids Pro is on sale for just $99.99 as part of the Memorial Day Sale, saving you $50 on the tablet.

Not only can kids stream their favorite shows from the Fire HD 8 Kids Pro, they can make voice and video calls to the grandparents or friends from school they won't see over the summer. Of course, educational content is also available through the Fire 8 Kids Pro thanks to the included Amazon Kids+ subscription for a year. Parents are still in control with the ability to set time parameters and approve of any purchases before they occur.

Why we like it

If you struggle with staying hydrated, welcome to the club. It's easy to think drinking water would be no issue, but actually downing the ounces throughout the day can be an issue. With summer temps requiring even more hydration, grab the 40 oz Hydro Flask All Around travel tumbler to help keep you drinking water this summer. The double-wall design means your preferred drinks will stay cold and the flexible straw makes taking a quick sip a second-nature task.