Sat, 18 May 2024 04:00:00 GMT

If I take pride in one thing, it’s that I’m an incredible budget shopper. By that I mean that I seem to have a sixth sense for sales, so when I realized that Amazon had begun releasing its Memorial Day markdowns early, I quickly took to the site to scope out the best deals before they were officially announced. With several trips on the horizon this summer (New Mexico and Norway, to name a few), I have some significant holes in my packing list that need to be filled before heading to the airport next month.

Whether you’re planning a weekend getaway, a staycation, or an overseas adventure, I’ve taken the liberty of rounding up the 15 best early Memorial Day deals that are currently available at Amazon to help you prepare for your next trip. From the most durable Samsonite suitcase to the comfiest sneakers for walking tours, these are the markdowns I’m planning on shopping even before the holiday weekend hits, with prices starting as low as $18.

For the last several years I’ve avoided checking a bag like the plague, but with some longer adventures on the horizon, I’m toying with the idea of investing in a durable checked suitcase that can withstand the wear and tear of traveling. Through my extensive research, I landed on this hardside piece from Samsonite. The built-in TSA lock provides peace of mind that even when my belongings are out of my sight they’ll still be kept safe, while a sturdy yet lightweight exterior won’t exceed the airline weight limit. Plus, the clam shell design will allow me to pack the bag to the brim without struggling to get it closed.

I’ve been on the hunt for the perfect pair of over-ear headphones for months now — with the stipulation that I don’t want to have to pay the equivalent of half of a plane ticket to afford them. Right now, these noise-canceling headphones from Beats are on sale for a staggering 49 percent off, and with up to 40 hours of battery life on a single charge as well as impressive cushioning, I can’t go wrong. Not only will they be great for traveling, but the Bluetooth connection also allows me to connect them to my laptop for a distraction-free environment when I’m working from the office, as well.

I’m the queen of comfort during long travel days (and even short ones), so it’s only natural that a cozy and stylish lounge set would be at the top of my to-buy list this season. This casual pairing from Lingswallow caught my eye due to the adjustable elastic waistband and longer length shorts, plus, while the style is relatively casual, I know I can wear each piece separately or together to really maximize my wardrobe. Best of all, it’s just under $14 per piece right now, which is well within my budget.

After walking a hole into my tried-and-true white sneakers, I’ve been keeping an eye out for a new style that’s not only cool, but also supportive. So, when I saw that the Reebok Princess Sneakers had earned nearly 30,000 five-star ratings thanks to their comfort and versatile shape, I knew they were just what I was looking for. EVA midsoles will ensure that I still feel fresh after racking up mileage while sightseeing, while a terry lining works to keep my feet cool during even the hottest summer days. And maybe the greatest draw of all is that they channel the tennis-core aesthetic that I can’t seem to shake after watching Challengers earlier this month.

With a 10-day hiking trip to Norway rapidly approaching, I want to give myself ample time to break in a new pair of hiking boots before it’s time to hit the trails. Currently sitting at 40 percent off, the Columbia Newton Ridge hiking boots are a no-brainer selection as shoppers rave that they’re comfortable straight out of the box, while a waterproof exterior, well-cushioned insoles, and high-traction outsoles all contribute to the impressive quality of these shoes. Reinforced toe and heel construction will allow me to comfortably take on a wide range of terrain without getting hurt — and it certainly helps that they’re cute.

One of my greatest skills in life is that I can sleep almost anywhere. However, the caveat is that while I may be out cold, my head continues to aggressively loll around the entire time, often resulting in a stiff neck (and some embarrassment) when I awaken. So, I knew I needed to upgrade my neck pillow for something that offered a little more support, and the Bcozzy double support pillow is just the thing for the job. It’s designed to fully prop your head up no matter which angle your neck may fall at, and the hook-and-loop closure at the top of the pillow firmly secures it in place to maintain its position under the chin. And at the end of my trip, I can simply throw the pillow in the wash to cleanse away the grime of the airport.

One of my least favorite parts of traveling is actually packing my suitcase, which is usually made worse by the fact that I can’t pare down my closet to save my life. Because of this, it’s time to turn to the big guns: compression packing cubes. This set of seven bags from Pfeyrpk offers several different sizes to choose from, as well as a clear toiletry organizer and a dirty laundry bag that will make both TSA and unpacking at the end of my trip much easier. The double zip design will effectively tamp down even my bulkiest clothing to fit into a carry-on without forcing me to sit on my bag, and durable, tear-resistant material ensures that these totes will last trip after trip without needing replacement. With the compressive design creating more space in my suitcase, I’m taking this as a sign to pack even more than before — kidding!

As a self-proclaimed shorts hater, I’ve built an impressive collection of maxi dresses over the last few summers, and now they’re my preferred method of staying cool during the hotter months. Since I’m never opposed to adding one more option to the mix, this tiered black dress from Anrabess is my top choice while it’s on sale for just $36. The simple style makes it easy to dress up or down (and versatility is key, after all), and the rayon material won’t be quick to wrinkle so I don’t have to worry about using an unpredictable hotel iron. Honestly, I may even be tempted to snag it in more than one of the 31 gorgeous colors and patterns.

After earning a baffling 79,000-plus five-star ratings at Amazon and now boasting a 55 percent discount for a limited time, I’m officially sold on the Matein laptop backpack as the newest addition to my collection of travel essentials. This spacious and comfortable-to-wear tote is fitted with several spacious pockets that will vastly improve my packing experience as I often tend to stuff my backpack to the brim, while the compact size is still small enough to fit under the seats of most commercial airlines. A waterproof exterior is a must for any personal item, and with padding at the back of the bag for extra support during long days of sightseeing, I may have just found my dream backpack.

I’ve been a loyal user of my Kindle Fire for years now, but even I have to admit that it might be time for an upgrade as the battery life has begun to drop. Right now, I’m eyeing the Kindle Scribe as my replacement of choice seeing as it not only works as a reading device, but also a notebook — and I’m a sucker for versatility. The lightweight and compact device offers a stunning weeks-long battery that even the brand boasts as the “longest battery life of any Kindle,” and it’s even on sale for $100 off for a limited time. As both an avid reader and a writer by trade, this notebook and e-reader combo is practically made for me.

Travel bags are often monochromatic and frankly, a little boring, so when I noticed that this polka dotted duffel from Rockland was on sale for a mere $19, how could I resist? The spacious design is just large enough for weekend trips with a top-open compartment that’s easily accessible when I need to reach my belongings in a hurry, and a padded shoulder strap even ensures that traveling with this bag is comfortable without slipping off my shoulder. Sure, it’s cute, but it’s also highly practical, which is exactly what I’m looking for in a duffel.

I’m of the opinion that you can simply never have too many purses, and seeing as the topic of pickpocketing has been all over my TikTok ‘For You’ page in recent weeks, I’m now on the hunt for a bag that I can trust to keep my essentials safe both while I’m traveling and living my everyday life. This shopper-loved convertible crossbody is now on sale for 43 percent off (I do love a good bargain, after all), and with a slash-resistant strap, locking compartments, and an RFID-blocking exterior, I think I’ve found my top choice. Plus, it’s so compact that it won’t take up much space in my backpack while I’m flying, since I don’t like wearing purses in the airport.

Every time I unpack at a hotel it looks like my makeup and toiletry bags have exploded all over the counter. The best solution to this? A hanging toiletry bag that will keep my essentials organized out and of the way, and what better choice than this currently discounted option from Bagsmart. The interior of this bag is fitted with several folding, clear pockets that will allow me to see where all of my toiletries are when I’m getting ready in a hurry, and it’s even ideal for heading through TSA as this bag comes with an airline-approved clear pouch that will keep my liquids separate and easy to access.

My collection of portable chargers is bordering on ridiculous at this point, but I’m still set on having one available in as many purses and bags as possible. At 34 percent off, this packable port from Iniu is my next purchase. This device has earned more than 77,800 five-star ratings from other travelers that are endlessly impressed with its power and long-lasting battery, and it’s so slim that I’ll be able to slide it into a small pocket in my carry-on or personal item for use on the go. As an added bonus, it even comes in five fun colors to add some personality to my travel gear.

I’m leaving wrinkled dresses and tops behind this season, so investing in the best-selling HiLife portable steamer is essential for making this vow a reality. The impressively small but mighty steamer will take up minimal real estate in even the most compact carry-on bags, and its high-powered design effortlessly removes wrinkles and folds so I can press my clothes even when I’m in a hurry. The device is fitted with a 9-foot power cord to accommodate even the least conveniently placed outlets in any hotel room – and right now it’s on sale for just $26.

Love a great deal? Sign up for our T+L Recommends newsletter and we’ll send you our favorite travel products each week.