Fri, 17 May 2024 09:00:00 GMT

If you’re struggling to find a comfortable pair of pants for work this summer, another pair for working out, and another pair for traveling, don’t fret. These versatile pants can be worn to all these occasions and more, and they’re currently marked down to as low as $16 at Amazon.

No matter what your plans are this warm-weather season, the Ueu High-Waisted Wide-Leg Lounge Pants are the perfect piece to add to your closet. The pants effortlessly combine comfort and style into one easy, breezy article of clothing. If you’re still not convinced, take a glance through the more than 3,000 five-star ratings from Amazon shoppers who say they are a must-have. One shopper wrote that they “can be worn almost anywhere.”

The high-waisted pants are designed with comfort in mind. They’re made with a blend of polyester and spandex material that one shopper says makes them stretchy and “buttery soft.” With wide legs and slits on the ankles, the design will ensure you keep cool, even in hot temperatures. One shopper with six pairs of the pants wrote, “They’re so unbelievably comfortable.” An added bonus? They have built-in pockets!

And even though the pants are technically meant for lounging, many shoppers say they wore them to work, dinners, and other upscale celebrations. The simple wide-leg design makes them easy to dress up; just add a blouse, blazer, and flats. Another shopper shared, “I have a strict dress code at the office but sometimes I just want to feel relaxed and comfy. The pants are so flowy that they are able to slide under the radar.”

“They look like fancy pants and feel like PJs,” shared one teacher who wears these to school. The shopper especially loves to use the pockets to hold their phones, pencils, and other essentials during the school day—and not lose anything. “My phone didn’t fall out every time I bent over or crouched either!”

The polyester-spandex blend pants are machine washable, so you can easily wash them with your other laundry when they’re dirty. Many reviewers say the material doesn’t pill or wrinkle either, making them the perfect pants for long travel days. One customer who called them “great travel pants” shared, “[I] wore them on a 9-hour flight and they did not wrinkle.”

While the pants are perfect for spring and summer weather, you can wear them well into the fall, too. Many shoppers own several pairs in different colors and choose darker, deep shades to match their autumn wardrobe aesthetic. Throw on a sweater, cardigan, and sneakers, and you’re good to go.

Ready to try the popular pants out for yourself? Be sure to grab the Ueu high-waisted wide-leg lounge pants while they’re up to 41 percent off. And keep scrolling to see even more discounted flowy pants at Amazon.