Fri, 17 May 2024 15:26:13 GMT

Discover the best Amazon patio furniture for spring and summer 2024 — all under $270. (Photos via Amazon)

The May long weekend is here, and wouldn't it be nice to spend Victoria Day outside on a nice, relaxing patio set? If your outdoor space is lacking a comfy set, it's time to spruce things up. But I get it, patio furniture prices can be pretty steep (borderline ridiculous, actually), that's for sure. However, I can confirm that Amazon Canada has tons of gorgeous patio sets that won't cost you a fortune.

With spring finally here and summer not far away, we've gathered some shopper-favourite furniture picks that'll make your patio the place to be all season long. Scroll below to dive into our top picks for affordable patio furniture — all under $270 (for real!).

This set is made of all-weather rattan, so it'll hold up through rain or shine. It includes cushioned chairs and an elegant glass-top table. Promising review: One shopper said they're "very satisfied" with the quality, stating it's "much better than I expected." $240 at Amazon

If you have a smaller space, this set won't take up much real estate. The chairs are adjustable, so you can kick back and relax. Promising review: "I'm so impressed," raves one shopper who confirms this "well made" set is a "great buy!" $140 at Amazon

Kick back and relax with these zero gravity chair set, which includes two zero gravity loungers and a matching table. Promising review: Backed by a 4.5-star rating, shoppers say that these gravity chairs "operate very smoothly" and is a "great set for the price." $145 at Amazon

The FDW Wicker Patio Furniture Set rings in at $209, and comes with four durable pieces that you can use all spring and summer long. Promising review: "Looks great on our front porch!" shared one reviewer, who also called this patio set "great value." $220 at Amazon

"Really impressed with this set" Short on space but still want to add some seating to our outdoor areas? This wooden bistro set fits the bill. Promising review: Customers call this table and chairs the "perfect little set," adding that they have been "very impressed" with the quality for the price. $230 at Amazon

The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication.

Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram.