Fri, 17 May 2024 10:30:00 GMT

Memorial Day weekend is less than a week away, which means it might be time to assess your summer essentials. Luckily, you can save big before the unofficial start to the season.

Amazon is celebrating Memorial Day ahead of schedule this year with a ton of impressive discounts in every department. We rounded up the best deals to shop this weekend and found customer-loved gems for up to 80 percent off. Shoppers can save on patio furniture, ice cream makers, breezy dresses, and other summer must-haves, as well as year-round staples from brands like Apple, Dyson, and New Balance.

Amazon’s top deals include Apple AirPods Pro for under $200, a Samsonite carry-on for $140, and a 12-piece kitchen knife set that’s a whopping 80 percent off. There are plenty of markdowns on goodies you’ll use throughout the summer, too, like this Neutrogena sunscreen for just $8 and this Tommy Bahama beach chair that reclines into five positions, including laying flat.

We also found early Memorial Day deals in Amazon’s home, kitchen, fashion, and beauty departments. Read on to see what else you can snag early savings on.

Thousands of shoppers are buying up best-sellers in the home section, so act fast to nab top picks like this Lasko tower fan and the highly coveted Bissell Little Green carpet cleaner while they’re under $100.

If you’re planning to spend Memorial Day weekend outside, don’t miss the assortment of outdoor furniture and decor deals. This Adirondack chair with a built-in cup holder could be your go-to lounger for the season, and this six-piece sectional sofa is great for larger gatherings.

There’s no shortage of sales on cookware and appliances, either. Amazon slashed prices on tons of Ninja devices, including this best-selling air fryer and the popular Creami ice cream maker, which will allow you to make all sorts of frozen creations at home this summer. And for another seasonal treasure, grab this stainless steel grill basket that prevents food from falling through the grates on your barbecue without affecting heat distribution and flavor.

We also found early Memorial Day deals on summer fashion. If you like to stick to the realm of airy pieces, check out the deals on this peplum button-down blouse and these breezy palazzo pants that are made from a breathable linen blend. The wide-leg pants also have an adjustable drawstring waist that provides additional comfort without sacrificing style. You can also save on this tiered maxi dress from The Drop that’s a comfortable yet elegant staple in my warm-weather wardrobe.

Top-selling makeup, skincare, and haircare are marked down right now, including this Maybelline mascara, this Revlon blow-dry brush, and this L’Oréal Paris moisturizer that targets fine lines and wrinkles.

There’s also a rare discount on this EltaMD facial sunscreen that’s revered by Amazon customers and celebrities alike, so grab a bottle before you catch some rays this summer. You can pair it with this Sun Bum spray sunscreen to protect your body from harmful ultraviolet light, too.

Amazon’s early Memorial Day weekend sale is on now. Check out even more of our favorite finds below, but don’t wait to add them to your cart because discounts aren’t guaranteed to last.