Fri, 17 May 2024 12:48:00 GMT

The Monster Hunter release wheel is starting to turn again as Capcom prepares for the launch of Monster Hunter Wilds, confirmed to be here in 2025. Let's hope that's by this time next year and not closer to a holiday release. Other than dipping back into Monster Hunter World, there are other ways to keep your love of the series ticking over in the meantime. Especially now that its set of desktop figures is finally easy to find and buy in the US.

Despite the Amazon listing reading that the set includes six items, there only appear to be five. Potentially a mistranslation as this set has previously been a Japanese exclusive, or maybe one of the items is duplicated or not pictured. As for what we know will definitely be included with the set, there are three vials that have been designed to look like they contain a potion, an energy drink, and demondrug, the fourth figure is a bomb barrel, and last but not least is a Monster Hunter staple - a well-done steak.

The Capcom licensed collection of figures has been slapped with a May 29, 2024, release date which might explain why at the time of typing this, the quartet of consumables (plus the bomb barrel) is unavailable. It might also be because the set is in such high demand that Amazon is adding the stock gradually, a tactic it uses to prevent scalpers from buying up in-demand stock and to stop the page, or the site as a whole, from running into any issues. The link to the store page is in the box below, and if the set is currently unavailable, keep checking back as it will likely be restocked.

Add Some Well-Done Steak To Your Desktop

The set of desktop figures is the latest in a series of things Capcom is doing to keep Monster Hunter fans' interest piqued between now and the release of Monster Hunter Wilds. It added a lot of Monster Hunter plushes to Amazon to kick off 2024, but it didn't make them all available in one go. The plushes have been released in batches, forcing collectors to build up their haul gradually, much like you might do in the games themselves.

If desktop figures and plushes still aren't enough to tide you over until Wilds hits in 2025, a remaster of Monster Hunter Stories, formerly a Nintendo 3DS console exclusive, is coming to Nintendo Switch and PS4 on June 14. Its sequel, Wings of Ruin will arrive on PS4 on the same day, and a physical collection that bundles both games in the spinoff series together is coming to Switch too, likely on June 14 along with everything else.