Sat, 18 May 2024 03:40:05 GMT

NOLENSVILLE — Knoxville Webb boys lacrosse coach Rico Silvera cackled with joy when his players rushed over and began dancing around him in a circle with the silver championship trophy.

The Spartans won their first boys lacrosse state title and delivered Silvera his first in 21 seasons, routing defending champion Christ Presbyterian 14-5 on Friday for the TSLA Division II-AA/A state championship.

Webb sophomore Baxter Johnson knew how much it meant to Silvera because Johnson’s dad, Spartans assistant coach Jonathan, has been with Silvera since he started the program in 2004.

“I’ve known Rico pretty much my whole life,” Johnson said. “We knew we had to do this for him. He’s getting older and he’s been here just once before. This means everything for us to do this for him.”

Johnson and Bryce Hooker each scored three goals for Webb (15-2).

Silvera, 69, led Webb to the 2011 state final but that was as close as the Spartans had come to winning a championship.

“This one’s for every kid who’s ever been here, every block that’s put into this program,” Silvera said. “I can’t tell you how many alumni reached out to me this week, former coaches, former players, about this game. I’ve had the pleasure of working with over 300 different student-athletes and 18 assistant coaches. Each of them made me a better man and coach.”

Jonathan Johnson’s other son, Hank, was a star goalkeeper for Webb last year. Silvera thought the team had a good championship opportunity then, but it lost to CPA in overtime of the semifinals.

There are no more what-ifs now.

“When I first started, they were looking for anyone who could spell ‘lacrosse’ to help coach the team,” Jonathan Johnson said. “I just got involved, and then I started getting invested in watching all these different guys grow up.”

Webb jumped out to a 2-0 lead just two minutes into the game. Baxter Johnson scored all three of his goals in the first half, and the Spartans led 11-1 by intermission.

Johnson, an all-state selection as an eighth grader and freshman, is the first sophomore Silvera has made a captain.

“He’s our Michael Jordan,” Silvera said. “He’s a generational player for us.”

Reach sports writer Tyler Palmateer at tpalmateer@tennessean.com and on the X platform, formerly Twitter, @tpalmateer83.