Fri, 17 May 2024 15:32:39 GMT

Tesla, Inc. TSLA shares are trading higher Friday, and the stock is up more than 5% over the past five days. Here's a look at what's going on.

According to a Reuters report, Tesla has switched gears to a plan to develop its self-driving system with data from China that could be processed within the country, rather than exporting the data outside of China.

According to two people familiar with the matter, Tesla is currently developing plans for a data center in China to train the algorithm needed for its Full Self Driving (FSD) system.

Earlier in the week, Tesla received approval from the local council to expand its gigafactory in Berlin, despite protests from environmentalists and locals. However, the company also needs approval from local environmental authorities before it can begin the expansion.

The EV maker plans to double the plant's capacity for battery production to 100-gigawatt hours and car production to 1 million units annually and also intends to add a train station on the factory premises.

Tesla also announced a 10% workforce reduction in Norway as part of the company's broader global restructuring strategy, aiming to cut approximately 14,000 positions out of its 140,000-strong workforce.

According to data from Benzinga Pro, shares are trading above the stock’s 50-day moving average of $170.83 and well-below its 52-week high of $299.29.

Related News:What’s Going On With Faraday Future Intelligent Electric Stock?

An investor can make a few decisions when deciding whether a stock is a good buy. In addition to valuation metrics and price action which you can find on Benzinga's quote pages – like Tesla‘s page for example – there are factors like whether or not a company pays a dividend or buys a large portion of its stock each quarter.

These are known as capital allocation programs. Tesla does not pay a dividend, but obviously has a few ways it can return value to shareholders. Feel free to search Benzinga's dividend calendar for the next company that is due to pay a dividend and determine what kind of yield you can earn for holding a share of the company.

For example, if you're looking to earn an annualized return of 8.19%, you'll need to buy a share of Bancroft Fund by the June 13. Once done, you can expect to receive a nominal payout of $0.32 on June 21.

Buyback programs are obviously different and highly variable. A company can approve a buyback program and purchase shares as it sees fit over the course of time in which the buyback was authorized. Looking through the latest news on Tesla will often yield whether or not the company has approved a buyback program recently. Buyback programs usually serve as a support for share prices, serving as a backstop for demand.

TSLA Price Action: According to Benzinga Pro, Tesla shares are up 1.29% at $177.04 at the time of publication Friday.