Fri, 17 May 2024 17:03:15 GMT

Bill Gates sold off a sizeable chunk of his portfolio last quarter, which could be seen as another bearish signal for the stock market and a move that mirrors Warren Buffett's recent decisions. Gates has reduced his position by an estimated $1.7 billion on two of his largest holdings – Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK-B) and Microsoft MSFT.

According to the latest 13F filing, Gates sold 2,613,252 shares of Berkshire Hathaway. It's not clear what price the shares were sold for but, based on the average price of $393.34 per share during the quarter, the total sale is estimated to be over $1 billion. Additionally, he reduced his stake in Microsoft by 1,711,272 shares, which traded at an average price of $404.82 for an estimated total of nearly $700 million. The combined value of these sales is estimated to be around $1.72 billion.

The reduction in Gates’ portfolio mirrors a similar move made by Warren Buffett during the same quarter, who has been stockpiling cash at Berkshire Hathaway. Berkshire’s cash reserves reached a record high of $189 billion during the first quarter, with Buffett predicting it will likely reach $200 billion by the end of the current quarter. Buffett’s decision to reduce Berkshire’s stake in Apple and boost the company’s cash position has been viewed as a bearish signal for the stock market, indicating that the investor doesn't see many attractive opportunities with the current economic climate.

Besides reducing the size of his stock portfolio by more than four million shares, Gates is reportedly selling two superyachts – the Wayfinder and Project 821. The latter, a 390-foot vessel under construction at Feadship, is listed for sale at 600 million euros ($642 million), while the Wayfinder, a 224-foot catamaran, is also on the market. The reasons behind these sales are not explicitly stated, but speculation suggests that Gates may simply be honoring his commitment to environmental causes and reducing his environmental impact. It's also possible that the sale of these yachts is a financial move aimed at boosting his cash hoard.

Is It Time To Sit Out Of The Market For A While?

Bill Gates and Warren Buffett’s parallel moves to increase their cash positions suggest a bearish outlook on the stock market in the near future. While nobody should make investment decisions based solely on Gates and Buffett's actions, they are still worth considering.

While it likely wouldn't make sense to sell off any current holdings, sitting on the sidelines for now in terms of new investments may be a reasonable choice. However, idle cash is certain to lose value as inflation remains high. One approach is to consider a short-term cash management tool that provides a high yield and principal protection. This will allow you to keep earning income from your cash while waiting for better market opportunities.

Basecamp Alpine Notes from EquityMultiple are one of the most compelling high-yield opportunities available right now, particularly because of the company's perfect track record of on-time payments.

Alpine Notes are a powerful short-term cash management tool that also provides the security of institutional-quality real estate. They have a target APY of 9.00% over a 3-month term and a low minimum investment of $1,000.

Interest is accrued and compounded monthly, increasing the effective annualized rate of return. Notes can be automatically rolled over into a subsequent note series upon maturity to allow for further compounding of returns, or you can cash out to put your capital to work elsewhere.

EquityMultiple has issued 61 Alpine Note series to 1,500+ investors and has met all payment and funding obligations with no missed or late interest payments.

Click here to learn more about what makes Basecamp Alpine Notes an attractive high-yield investment.
• Investing in real estate just got a whole lot simpler. This Jeff Bezos-backed startup will allow you to become a landlord in just 10 minutes, and you only need $100.
• Elon Musk has reportedly bought 6,000 acres of land just outside of Austin. Here’s how to invest in the city’s growth before he floods it with new tech workers.